General:
      * The current EXIF display is too EXIF specific and extremely
        dull,  The layout needs to be redone and the the Items should be
        ordered by relative importance.  A reduced view should replace
        the current info box on the side panel.
      * The info display should show all the metadata we know about at
        any given time Currently this means it should also display XMP
        chunks in jpegs.
      * Add basic simple file management.  Integrate this with dragging
        in the IconView to allow for moving between directories.
      * Add a folder view pane that lets you see the layout of the
        folders with images in them.
      * Add click to tag mode in the tag assignment.  This should be act
        like an editing mode where the cursor changes to an icon of the
        tag and ever image you click gets that tag applied.
      * Support for import/playing/tracking DCF sound files should be
        added.  These files are recorded at the same time as the image
        and named according to the digital camera file system
        specification.
      * Add a dbus service so that things like importing can be run
        separately from the command line or another app and communicate
        with a running f-spot.

Searching:
      * Add a time range slider next to the text search to allow simple
        limiting of the how far back to search remove the old time based
        search.

Timeline:
      * Fix the limits so that they don't scroll off screen but scroll
        onto a resting zone instead.

Image View:
      * Add a histogram overlay. The current histogram can basically
        work the way it is a slight widget wrapper.
      * The comment entry currently takes up too much space when it
        isn't being used.  It should be made simple to show/hide it and
        perhaps implemented as an overlay box.
      * Change the selection display type to use the darkening effect
        the gimp uses not the current XOR drawing.
      * Garrett has done mock-ups of the full-screen mode that should be
        analyzed and implemented.  They will probably end up using some
        of the overlay support created for the the histogram and comment
        work. 

Editing:
      * Move the current editing effects into the side pane and spit it
        several into functional groups.  The Picassa interface appears
        to be a good model to follow for the inline dialogs and it is
        similar to how album works.  This will also allow us to leave
        selection off in the PhotoView normally which will make Some
        people happy.  Miguel has a proof of concept patch that starts
        this process.
      * Define an effects interface that plug-ins can implement and be
        loaded into the new pane.
      * Enhance the current color editor to allow for more control over
        the adjustment curve.  LCMS supports creation of a lot more
        complex abstract profiles than we are currently using.  Adding
        something like shadow and highlight sliders should take a
        relatively small amount of work.
      * Add preset adjustment profiles for different lighting scenarios.
        Daylight/Incandescent/Fluorescent etc.  I think it should be
        possible to build the profile with some sliders then save it
        with lcms to be loaded later as a preset.
      * Add brightness/contrast auto-correction.  The gimp plug-ins are
        a good source for this.  Pick some good ones and implment them
        as pluggable effects.

Raw Photos: (this is broken down into a bit of a progression)
      * Implement 16bit scaling code. Move the current Editing logic
        from operating directly on pixbufs to operating on our own
        internal object that supports deep images and pixbufs (and
        metadata).  It should also be possible to clean up use of the
        Pixbuf utility class here.
      * Eventually it we should use the new image objects in a managed
        replacement of the current image view and do color correction on
        the fly in the image view code.  Hopefully we can count on it
        being fast enough to do real time.
      * Support loading and saving of 16bit png and tiff/DNF files. 

Icon View:
      * Add grouping display.  This can be based on the same information
        the GroupSelector uses but it should be displayed as bar inline
        in the IconView.

Import:
      * Fix the UI for both directory and camera import.  Allow the user
        to specify A batch description, camera type, photographer and
        copyright setting.  It would be nice to have An All rights
        reserved and the various creative commons options there already.
      * On initial startup do a search for all the images on the
        machine, either using beagle or locate or simple directory
        watching.
      * Watch directories we've already imported from for new files
        (using inotify?) and offer the ability to add them as they show
        up.

Export:

Metadata:
      * Store all the operations we apply to an image in the image
        metadata.  This includes export/import/editing.  This should
        include a specification about what types we know about and
        preferably be able to be serialized as RDF in an XMP file.
      * Allow metadata export as XMP.  We should be able to save all the
        metadata we are carrying as an XMP file externally and in the
        JPEG.  The current save jpeg code can support saveing multiple
        JPEG markers.
      * Sync up the metadata description with whatever beagle decides to
        standardize on.  Ideally we can attack the format along with the
        beagle crew and standardize on how we describe the f-spot tuples
        for import, export and editing.
      * Cope with images no longer on disc using stored metadata and
        beagle searches to replace missing images.  Prompt for CD
        insertion, display web image, find files that were moved outside
        of f-spot.
      * Finish the managed tiff/EXIF parser.

Printing:
